## Component API

The File Input component has two different variants with their own APIs:

- `Form::FileInput::Base`—the base component: the `<input type="file">` control
- `Form::FileInput::Field`—the field parent component: the `<input type="file">` control, with label, helper text, and error messaging (in a wrapping container)

### Form::FileInput::Base

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|>
  <C.Property @name="...attributes">
    This component supports use of [`...attributes`](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/in-depth-topics/patterns-for-components/#toc_attribute-ordering).
    <br/><br/>
    The attributes will be applied to the `<input type="file">` element. This means you can use [all the standard HTML attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/file) of the `<input type="file">` element and all the usual Ember techniques for event handling, validation, etc.
    <br/><br/>
    Examples of HTML attributes: `id`, `name`, `disabled`, `required`. See [the whole list of HTML attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#attributes). Examples of Ember modifiers: `\{{on "input" [do something]}}`, `\{{on "change" [do something]}}`, `\{{on "blur" [do something]}}`.
  </C.Property>
</Doc::ComponentApi>

### Form::FileInput::Field

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|>
  <C.Property @name="id" @type="string">
    Input control’s ID attribute.
    <br/><br/>
    By default, the ID is automatically generated by the component. Use this argument to pass a custom ID.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="extraAriaDescribedBy" @type="string">
    Extra ID attribute to add to the `aria-describedby` HTML attribute.
    <br/><br/>
    By default, the `aria-describedby` attribute is automatically generated by the component, using the IDs of the helper text and errors (if present). Use this argument to pass an extra ID.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="isRequired" @type="boolean" @default="false">
    Appends a `Required` indicator next to the label text when user input is required.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="isOptional" @type="boolean" @default="false">
    Appends an `Optional` indicator next to the label text when user input is optional.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="...attributes">
    This component supports use of [`...attributes`](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/in-depth-topics/patterns-for-components/#toc_attribute-ordering).
    <br/><br/>
    The attributes will be applied to the `<input type="file">` element. This means you can use all the standard HTML attributes of the `<input type="file">` element and all the usual Ember techniques for event handling, validation, etc.
    <br/><br/>
    Examples of HTML attributes: `id`, `name`, `disabled`, `required`. See [the whole list of HTML attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#attributes). Examples of Ember modifiers: `\{{on "input" [do something]}}`, `\{{on "change" [do something]}}`, `\{{on "blur" [do something]}}`.
  </C.Property>
</Doc::ComponentApi>

#### Contextual components

`Label`, `HelperText`, and `Error` content are passed to the field as yielded components.

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|>
  <C.Property @name="<[F].Label>" @type="yielded component">
    Container that yields its content inside the `<label>` element. The content can be a simple string or a more complex/structured string, in which case it inherits the text style. For details about its API, check the [`Form::Label`](/components/form/primitives) component.
    <br/><br/>
    The `for` attribute of the label is automatically generated using the `controlId` value of the control.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="<[F].HelperText>" @type="yielded component">
    Container that yields its content inside the “helper text” block. The content can be a simple string or a more complex/structured string, in which case it inherits the text style. For details about its API, check the [`Form::HelperText`](/components/form/primitives) component.
    <br/><br/>
    The `id` attribute of the element is automatically generated using the `controlId` value of the control.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="<[F].Error>" @type="yielded component">
    Container that yields its content inside the “error” block. The content can be a simple string or a more complex/structured string, in which case it inherits the text style. For details about its API, check the [`Form::Error`](/components/form/primitives) component.
    <br/><br/>
    The `id` attribute of the `Error` element is automatically generated.
    <Doc::ComponentApi as |C|>
      <C.Property @name="<[E].Message>" @type="yielded component">
        If the error is made of multiple messages, you can iterate over a collection of error messages yielding individual items using `Error.Message`.
      </C.Property>
    </Doc::ComponentApi>
  </C.Property>
</Doc::ComponentApi>
