---
title: Form::Select
category: components
group: form
component: select
section: component-api
---

The `Form::Select` component has two different variants, with their own APIs:

*   `Form::Select::Base` - the "basic" component: just the `<select>` control
*   `Form::Select::Field` - the "field" parent component: the `<select>` control, with label, helper text and error messaging (in a wrapping container)

#### Form::Select::Base

Here is the API for the "base" component:

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-form-text-select-base"><dt>isInvalid <code>boolean</code></dt><dd><p>It applies an "invalid" appearance to the control (<em>notice: this does _not_ modify its logical validity</em>).</p><p>Default: <span class="default">false</span></p></dd><dt>width <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>Acceptable values: any valid CSS width (px, rem, etc)</p><p><em>Notice: by default the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;select&gt;</code> has an intrinsic width based on its content. If a <code class="dummy-code">@width</code> parameter is provided then the control will have a fixed width.</em></p></dd><dt>...attributes</dt><dd><p><code class="dummy-code">...attributes</code> spreading is supported on this component.</p><p><em>Notice: the attributes will be applied to the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;select&gt;</code> element. This means you can use all the standard HTML attributes of the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;select&gt;</code> element and all the usual Ember techniques for event handling, validation, etc.</em></p><p><em>Some examples of HTML attributes that you will likely use: <code class="dummy-code">id</code>, <code class="dummy-code">name</code>, <code class="dummy-code">value</code>, <code class="dummy-code">disabled</code>, <code class="dummy-code">required</code>, <code class="dummy-code">multiple</code> (<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/select#attributes" rel="noopener noreferrer">see whole list here</a>) and some examples of Ember modifiers: <code class="dummy-code">{{on "change" [do something]}}</code>, <code class="dummy-code">{{on "blur" [do something]}}</code>.</em></p></dd></dl>

##### Contextual components

Select's options are passed to the field as yielded components, using the `Options` key.

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-form-text-select-base-contextual-components"><dt>&lt;[F].Options&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;select&gt;</code> element.</p><p>The content needs to be a set of native HTML <code class="dummy-code">&lt;option&gt;</code> and <code class="dummy-code">&lt;optgroup&gt;</code> elements (as such, you can provide to them also native HTML attributes).</p></dd></dl>

#### Form::Select::Field

Here is the API for the "field" component:

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-form-text-select-field"><dt>isInvalid <code>boolean</code></dt><dd><p>It applies an "invalid" appearance to the control (<em>notice: this does _not_ modify its logical validity</em>).</p><p>Default: <span class="default">false</span></p></dd><dt>width <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>Acceptable values: any valid CSS width (px, rem, etc)</p><p><em>Notice: by default the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;select&gt;</code> has an intrinsic width based on its content. If a <code class="dummy-code">@width</code> parameter is provided then the control will have a fixed width. This width will be applied <strong>only</strong> to the control, not the other elements of the field.</em></p></dd><dt>id <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>The select control's ID attribute</p><p><em>Notice: by default the ID is automatically generated by the component; use this argument if you need to pass a custom ID for specific reasons you may have.</em></p></dd><dt>isRequired <code>boolean</code></dt><dd><p>Appends a <code class="dummy-code">Required</code> indicator next to the label text and sets the <code class="dummy-code">required</code> attribute on the control when user input is required.</p><p>Default: <span class="default">false</span></p></dd><dt>isOptional <code>boolean</code></dt><dd><p>Appends an <code class="dummy-code">Optional</code> indicator next to the label text when user input is optional.</p><p>Default: <span class="default">false</span></p></dd><dt>extraAriaDescribedBy <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>An extra ID attribute to be added to the <code class="dummy-code">aria-describedby</code> HTML attribute.</p><p><em>Notice: by default the <code class="dummy-code">aria-describedby</code> attribute is automatically generated by the component, using the IDs of the helper text and errors (if they're present); use this argument if you need to pass an extra ID for specific reasons you may have.</em></p></dd><dt>...attributes</dt><dd><p><code class="dummy-code">...attributes</code> spreading is supported on this component.</p><p><em>Notice: the attributes will be applied to the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;select&gt;</code> element. This means you can use all the standard HTML attributes of the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;select&gt;</code> element and all the usual Ember techniques for event handling, validation, etc.</em></p><p><em>Some examples of HTML attributes that you will likely use: <code class="dummy-code">id</code>, <code class="dummy-code">name</code>, <code class="dummy-code">value</code>, <code class="dummy-code">placeholder</code>, <code class="dummy-code">disabled</code>, <code class="dummy-code">readonly</code>, <code class="dummy-code">required</code> (<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/select#attributes" rel="noopener noreferrer">see whole list here</a>) and some examples of Ember modifiers: <code class="dummy-code">{{on "change" [do something]}}</code>, <code class="dummy-code">{{on "blur" [do something]}}</code>.</em></p></dd></dl>

##### Contextual components

Options, label, helper text and error content are passed to the field as yielded components, using the `Options`, `Label`, `HelperText`, `Error` keys.

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-form-text-select-field-contextual-components"><dt>&lt;[F].Options&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;select&gt;</code> element.</p><p>The content needs to be a set of native HTML <code class="dummy-code">&lt;option&gt;</code> and <code class="dummy-code">&lt;optgroup&gt;</code> elements.</p></dd><dt>&lt;[F].Label&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;label&gt;</code> element.</p><p>The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style).</p><p>For details about its API check the <a href="/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/"><code class="dummy-code">Form::Label</code></a> component.</p><p><em>Notice: the <code class="dummy-code">for</code> attribute of the label is automatically generated, using the <code class="dummy-code">controlId</code> value of the control.</em></p></dd><dt>&lt;[F].HelperText&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the "helper text" block.</p><p>The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style).</p><p>For details about its API check the <a href="/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/"><code class="dummy-code">Form::HelperText</code></a> component.</p><p><em>Notice: the <code class="dummy-code">id</code> attribute of the element is automatically generated, using the <code class="dummy-code">controlId</code> value of the control.</em></p></dd><dt>&lt;[F].Error&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the "error" block.</p><p>The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style).</p><dl class="dummy-component-props"><dt>[E].Message <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>If the error is made of multiple messages, you can iterate over a collection of error messages yielding individual items using <code class="dummy-code">Error.Message</code>.</p></dd></dl><p>For details about its API check the <a href="/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/"><code class="dummy-code">Form::Error</code></a> component.</p><p><em>Notice: the <code class="dummy-code">id</code> attribute of the <code class="dummy-code">Error</code> element is automatically generated.</em></p></dd></dl>