---
title: Form::RadioCard
category: components
group: form
component: radio-card
section: component-api
---

#### Form::RadioCard

Here is the API for the `RadioCard` component:

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-form-radio-card"><dt>name <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>The input control's name attribute</p></dd><dt>value <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>The input control's value attribute</p></dd><dt>checked <code>boolean</code></dt><dd><p>The input control's checked attribute</p></dd><dt>disabled <code>boolean</code></dt><dd><p>The input control's disabled attribute</p></dd><dt>controlPosition <code>enum</code></dt><dd><p>Sets the position of the form control in relation to the card content.</p><p>Acceptable values:</p><ol><li class="default">bottom</li><li>left</li></ol></dd><dt>alignment <code>enum</code></dt><dd><p>Sets the alignment of the card content.</p><p>Acceptable values:</p><ol><li class="default">left</li><li>center</li></ol></dd><dt>layout <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>Acceptable values:</p><ol><li class="default">fluid</li><li>fixed</li></ol><p><em>Notice: by default the card will expand to fit the parent container. When used in a group the cards will equally share the width to fit the available space. If the <code class="dummy-code">@layout</code> parameter is set to <code class="dummy-code">fixed</code> a <code class="dummy-code">@maxWidth</code> value must be specified to constrain the card.</em></p></dd><dt>maxWidth <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>Acceptable values: any valid CSS width (%, vw, etc)</p><p>When used with a <code class="dummy-code">fluid</code> layout, this parameter will determine the number of cards shown per row (for example <code class="dummy-code">25%</code> will result in 4 cards).</p><p>When used with a <code class="dummy-code">fixed</code> layout, this parameter will preserve the width of the card and wrap cards on multiple rows if necessary.</p></dd><dt>extraAriaDescribedBy <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>An extra ID attribute to be added to the <code class="dummy-code">aria-describedby</code> HTML attribute.</p><p><em>Notice: by default the <code class="dummy-code">aria-describedby</code> attribute is automatically generated by the component, using the IDs of the helper text and errors (if they're present); use this argument if you need to pass an extra ID for specific reasons you may have.</em></p></dd><dt>...attributes</dt><dd><p><code class="dummy-code">...attributes</code> spreading is supported on this component.</p><p><em>Notice: the attributes will be applied to the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;input type="radio"&gt;</code> element. This means you can use all the standard HTML attributes of the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;input type="radio"&gt;</code> element and all the usual Ember techniques for event handling, validation, etc.</em></p><p><em>Some examples of HTML attributes that you will likely use: <code class="dummy-code">id</code>, <code class="dummy-code">disabled</code> (<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#attributes" rel="noopener noreferrer">see whole list here</a>) and some examples of Ember modifiers: <code class="dummy-code">{{on "click" [do something]}}</code>, <code class="dummy-code">{{on "change" [do something]}}</code>.</em></p></dd></dl>

##### Contextual components

`Icon`, `Label`, `Badge`, `Description`, and `Generic` content are passed to the `RadioCard` as contextual components in this order, regardless of the declaration order.

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-form-radio-card-contextual-components"><dt>&lt;[R].Icon&gt;</dt><dd><p>It yields an icon inside the card container.</p><p>For details about its API check the <a href="https://flight-hashicorp.vercel.app/engineering" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"><code class="dummy-code">FlightIcon</code></a> component.</p></dd><dt>&lt;[R].Label&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content emphasized inside the card.</p><dl class="dummy-component-props"><dt>...attributes</dt><dd><p><code class="dummy-code">...attributes</code> spreading is supported on this component.</p></dd></dl></dd><dt>&lt;[R].Badge&gt;</dt><dd><p>It is a badge inside the card container.</p><p>For details about its API check the <a href="/components/badge/01_overview/"><code class="dummy-code">Badge</code></a> component.</p></dd><dt>&lt;[R].Description&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the card.</p><p>The content can be a simple string or a more complex/structured one, in which case it inherits the text style.</p><dl class="dummy-component-props"><dt>...attributes</dt><dd><p><code class="dummy-code">...attributes</code> spreading is supported on this component.</p></dd></dl></dd><dt>&lt;[R].Generic&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the card.</p><p>The content does not inherit any styles and can be customized as desired.</p><dl class="dummy-component-props"><dt>...attributes</dt><dd><p><code class="dummy-code">...attributes</code> spreading is supported on this component.</p></dd></dl></dd></dl>

#### Form::RadioCard::Group

Here is the API for the "group" component:

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-form-radio-card-group"><dt>controlPosition <code>enum</code></dt><dd><p>Sets the position of the form control in relation to the card content.</p><p>Acceptable values:</p><ol><li class="default">bottom</li><li>left</li></ol></dd><dt>alignment <code>enum</code></dt><dd><p>Sets the alignment of the card content.</p><p>Acceptable values:</p><ol><li class="default">left</li><li>center</li></ol></dd><dt>name <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>Sets the <code class="dummy-code">name</code> attribute for each form control within the group.</p></dd><dt>isRequired <code>boolean</code></dt><dd><p>Appends a <code class="dummy-code">Required</code> indicator next to the legend text and sets the <code class="dummy-code">required</code> attribute on the controls when user input is required.</p><p>Default: <span class="default">false</span></p></dd><dt>layout <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>Acceptable values:</p><ol><li class="default">fluid</li><li>fixed</li></ol><p><em>Notice: by default the cards will expand to fit the parent container and will equally share the width to fit the available space. If the <code class="dummy-code">@layout</code> parameter is set to <code class="dummy-code">fixed</code> a <code class="dummy-code">@maxWidth</code> value must be specified for each <code class="dummy-code">RadioCard</code> to constrain them.</em></p></dd></dl>

##### Contextual components

Legend, helper text, radio card, and error content are passed to the group as yielded components, using the `Legend`, `HelperText`, `RadioCard`, `Error` keys.

_Notice: the group of elements is automatically wrapped in a `<fieldset>` element._

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-form-radio-group-contextual-components"><dt>&lt;[G].Legend&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is an (optional) container that yields its content inside the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;legend&gt;</code> element.</p><p>The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style).</p><p>For details about its API check the <a href="/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/"><code class="dummy-code">Form::Legend</code></a> component.</p></dd><dt>&lt;[G].HelperText&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the "helper text" block (at group level).</p><p>The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style).</p><p>For details about its API check the <a href="/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/"><code class="dummy-code">Form::HelperText</code></a> component.</p><p><em>Notice: the <code class="dummy-code">id</code> attribute of the element is automatically generated.</em></p></dd><dt>&lt;[G].RadioCard&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is used to yield one or more cards inside the group.</p><p>For details about its API check the <code class="dummy-code">RadioCard</code> component above.</p></dd><dt>&lt;[G].Error&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the "error" block (at group level).</p><p>The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style).</p><dl class="dummy-component-props"><dt>[E].Message <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>If the error is made of multiple messages, you can iterate over a collection of error messages yielding individual items using <code class="dummy-code">Error.Message</code>.</p></dd></dl><p>For details about its API check the <a href="/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/"><code class="dummy-code">Form::Error</code></a> component.</p><p><em>Notice: the <code class="dummy-code">id</code> attribute of the <code class="dummy-code">Error</code> element is automatically generated.</em></p></dd></dl>