The `Form::Checkbox` component has three different variants, with their own APIs:

*   `Form::Checkbox::Base` - the "basic" component: just the `<input>` control
*   `Form::Checkbox::Field` - the "field" parent component: the `<input>` control, with label, helper text and error messaging (in a wrapping container)
*   `Form::Checkbox::Group` - the "group" parent component: a `<legend>` (optional), a list of fields, and error messaging

#### Form::Checkbox::Base

Here is the API for the "base" component:

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|><C.Property @name="...attributes" @type="–" @value="–">`...attributes` spreading is supported on this component. _Notice: the attributes will be applied to the_ _Some examples of HTML attributes that you will likely use:_</C.Property></Doc::ComponentApi>

#### Form::Checkbox::Field

Here is the API for the "field" component:

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|><C.Property @name="id" @type="string" @value="–">The input control's ID attribute _Notice: by default the ID is automatically generated by the component; use this argument if you need to pass a custom ID for specific reasons you may have._</C.Property><C.Property @name="extraAriaDescribedBy" @type="string" @value="–">An extra ID attribute to be added to the `aria-describedby` HTML attribute. _Notice: by default the_</C.Property><C.Property @name="...attributes" @type="–" @value="–">`...attributes` spreading is supported on this component. _Notice: the attributes will be applied to the_ _Some examples of HTML attributes that you will likely use:_</C.Property></Doc::ComponentApi>

##### Contextual components

Label, helper text and error content are passed to the field as yielded components, using the `Label`, `HelperText`, `Error` keys.

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|><C.Property @name="<[F].Label>" @type="yielded component" @value="–">It is a container that yields its content inside the `<label>` element. The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style). For details about its API check the [undefined](/components/form/base-elements/) component. _Notice: the_</C.Property><C.Property @name="<[F].HelperText>" @type="yielded component" @value="–">It is a container that yields its content inside the "helper text" block. The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style). For details about its API check the [undefined](/components/form/base-elements/) component. _Notice: the_</C.Property><C.Property @name="<[F].Error>" @type="yielded component" @value="–">It is a container that yields its content inside the "error" block. The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style). For details about its API check the [undefined](/components/form/base-elements/) component. _Notice: the_</C.Property><C.Property @name="<[E].Message>" @type="yielded component" @value="–">If the error is made of multiple messages, you can iterate over a collection of error messages yielding individual items using `Error.Message`.</C.Property></Doc::ComponentApi>

#### Form::Checkbox::Group

Here is the API for the "group" component:

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|><C.Property @name="layout" @type="enum" @value="vertical horizontal" @default="vertical">Sets the layout of group.</C.Property><C.Property @name="name" @type="string" @value="–">Sets the `name` attribute for each form control within the group.</C.Property><C.Property @name="isRequired" @type="boolean" @value="–">Appends a `Required` indicator next to the legend text and sets the `required` attribute on the controls when user input is required.</C.Property><C.Property @name="isOptional" @type="boolean" @value="–">Appends an `Optional` indicator next to the legend text when user input is optional.</C.Property></Doc::ComponentApi>

##### Contextual components

Legend, group of fields and error content are passed to the group as yielded components, using the `Legend`, `Checkbox::Field`, `Error` keys.

_Notice: the group of elements is automatically wrapped in a `<fieldset>` element._

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|><C.Property @name="<[G].Legend>" @type="yielded component" @value="–">It is an (optional) container that yields its content inside the `<legend>` element. The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style). For details about its API check the [undefined](/components/form/base-elements/) component.</C.Property><C.Property @name="<[G].HelperText>" @type="yielded component" @value="–">It is a container that yields its content inside the "helper text" block (at group level). The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style). For details about its API check the [undefined](/components/form/base-elements/) component. _Notice: the_</C.Property><C.Property @name="<[G].Checkbox::Field>" @type="yielded component" @value="–">It is used to yield one or more fields inside the group. For details about its API check the `Checkbox::Field` component above.</C.Property><C.Property @name="<[G].Error>" @type="yielded component" @value="–">It is a container that yields its content inside the "error" block (at group level). The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style). For details about its API check the [undefined](/components/form/base-elements/) component. _Notice: the_</C.Property><C.Property @name="<[E].Message>" @type="yielded component" @value="–">If the error is made of multiple messages, you can iterate over a collection of error messages yielding individual items using `Error.Message`.</C.Property></Doc::ComponentApi>