## Component API

### Form::KeyValueInputs

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|>
  <C.Property @name="data" @type="array" @required={{true}}>
    The data used to render the initial state of the KeyValueInputs. These values are iterated over to render the appropriate rows.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="extraAriaDescribedBy" @type="string">
    Extra ID attribute to add to the `aria-describedby` HTML attribute.
    <br/><br/>
    By default, the `aria-describedby` attribute is automatically generated by the component, using the IDs of the helper text and errors (if present). Use this argument to pass an extra ID.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="isRequired" @type="boolean" @default="false">
    Appends a `Required` indicator next to the label text when user input is required.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="isOptional" @type="boolean" @default="false">
    Appends an `Optional` indicator next to the label text when user input is optional.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="...attributes">
    This component supports use of [`...attributes`](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/in-depth-topics/patterns-for-components/#toc_attribute-ordering).
    <br/><br/>
    The attributes will be applied to the `<fieldset>` element. This means you can use all the standard HTML attributes of the `<fieldset>` element and all the usual Ember techniques for event handling, validation, etc.
    <br/><br/>
    Examples of HTML attributes: `id`, `name`, `disabled`, `required`. See [the whole list of HTML attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#attributes). Examples of Ember modifiers: `\{{on "input" [do something]}}`, `\{{on "change" [do something]}}`, `\{{on "blur" [do something]}}`.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="<:header>" @type="named block">
    This is a named block where the content of the KeyValueInput header is rendered, this can include: legend, helper text, and a generic slot.
  </C.Property>
    <C.Property @name="<:row>" @type="named block">
    This is a named block where the content of the KeyValueInput rows are rendered.
    <Doc::ComponentApi as |C|>
     <C.Property @name="[R].rowData" @type="unknown">
        The data of the row associated with the `@each` loop. 
      </C.Property>
      <C.Property @name="[R].rowIndex" @type="number">
        The value of the index associated with the `@each` loop. 
      </C.Property>
    </Doc::ComponentApi>
  </C.Property>
    <C.Property @name="<:footer>" @type="named block">
    This is a named block where the content of the KeyValueInput footer is rendered, this can include: alert, add row button, error.
  </C.Property>
</Doc::ComponentApi>

#### Contextual components

##### [H].Legend

The `Form::Legend` component, yielded as a contextual component in the `:header` named block.

The content can be a simple string or a more complex/structured string, in which case it inherits the text style. For details about its API, check the [`Form::Legend`](/components/form/primitives) component.

The `id` attribute of the element is automatically generated using the `controlId` value of the control.

##### [H].HelperText

The `Form::HelperText` component, yielded as a contextual component in the `:header` named block.

The content can be a simple string or a more complex/structured string, in which case it inherits the text style. For details about its API, check the [`Form::HelperText`](/components/form/primitives) component.

The `id` attribute of the element is automatically generated using the `controlId` value of the control.

##### [R].Field

The `Form::KeyValueInputs::Field` component, yielded as a contextual component in the `:row` named block.

For the full API, see [the `Form::KeyValueInputs::Field` section](/components/form/key-value-inputs?tab=code#formkeyvalueinputsfield).

##### [R].Generic

The `Form::KeyValueInputs::Generic` component, yielded as a contextual component in the `:row` named block.

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|>
  <C.Property @name="yield">
    Elements passed as children are yielded as inner content of a `<div>` HTML element.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="...attributes">
    This component supports use of [`...attributes`](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/in-depth-topics/patterns-for-components/#toc_attribute-ordering).
  </C.Property>
</Doc::ComponentApi>

##### [R].DeleteRowButton

The `Form::KeyValueInputs::DeleteRowButton` component, yielded as a contextual component in the `:row` named block. It is built on top of [the `Button` component](/components/button).

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|>
  <C.Property @name="onClick" type="function">
    Callback function that is invoked when the button is clicked. The function recieves the DOM `event` and the data for the associated row.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="text" type="string">
    The name for the button.
    <br /><br />
    By default, the name is "Delete row {rowIndex}".
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="...attributes">
    This component supports use of [`...attributes`](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/in-depth-topics/patterns-for-components/#toc_attribute-ordering).
  </C.Property>
</Doc::ComponentApi>

##### [F].AddRowButton

The `Form::KeyValueInputs::AddRowButton` component, yielded as a contextual component in the `:footer` named block. It is built on top of [the `Button` component](/components/button).

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|>
  <C.Property @name="onClick" type="function">
    Callback function that is invoked when the button is clicked. The function recieves the DOM `event`.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="text" type="string">
    The name for the button.
    <br /><br />
    By default, the name is "Add row".
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="...attributes">
    This component supports use of [`...attributes`](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/in-depth-topics/patterns-for-components/#toc_attribute-ordering).
  </C.Property>
</Doc::ComponentApi>

##### [F].Alert

The `Alert` component, yielded as a contextual component in the `:footer` named block. For the full API, see [the `Alert` documentation](/components/alert).

##### [F].Error

The `Form::Error` component, yielded as a contextual component in the `:footer` named block.

The content can be a simple string or a more complex/structured string, in which case it inherits the text style. For details about its API, check the [`Form::Error`](/components/form/primitives) component.

The `id` attribute of the element is automatically generated using the `controlId` value of the control.

### Form::KeyValueInputs::Field

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|>
  <C.Property @name="extraAriaDescribedBy" @type="string">
    Extra ID attribute to add to the `aria-describedby` HTML attribute.
    <br/><br/>
    By default, the `aria-describedby` attribute is automatically generated by the component, using the IDs of the helper text and errors (if present). Use this argument to pass an extra ID.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="id" @type="string">
    Input control’s ID attribute.
    <br/><br/>
    By default, the ID is automatically generated by the component. Use this argument to pass a custom ID.
  </C.Property>
    <C.Property @name="isInvalid" @type="boolean">
    Applies an “invalid” appearance to the control but doesn’t modify its logical validity.
  </C.Property>
    <C.Property @name="isOptional" @type="boolean">
    Appends an `Optional` indicator next to the label text when user input is optional.
  </C.Property>
    <C.Property @name="isRequired" @type="boolean">
    Appends a `Required` indicator next to the label text when user input is required.
  </C.Property>
    <C.Property @name="width" @type="string">
    Sets the width of the Field. By default, the field is `1fr`.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="[F].Label" @type="yielded component">
     The `Form::Label` component, yielded as a contextual component. For details about its API, check the [`Form::Label`](/components/form/primitives) component.
  </C.Property>
    <C.Property @name="[F].HelperText" @type="yielded component">
    The `Form::HelperText` component, yielded as a contextual component. For details about its API, check the [`Form::HelperText`](/components/form/primitives) component.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="[F].FileInput" @type="yielded component">
    `Form::FileInput::Base` component, yielded as a contextual component. For details about its API, check the [`Form::FileInput::Base`](/components/form/file-input?tab=code#formfileinputbase-1) component.
  </C.Property>
    <C.Property @name="[F].MaskedInput" @type="yielded component">
    `Form::MaskedInput::Base` component, yielded as a contextual component. For details about its API, check the [`Form::MaskedInput::Base`](/components/form/masked-input?tab=code#formmaskedinputbase-1) component.
  </C.Property>
    <C.Property @name="[F].Select" @type="yielded component">
     `Form::Select::Base` component, yielded as a contextual component. For details about its API, check the [`Form::Select::Base`](/components/form/select?tab=code#formselectbase-1) component.
  </C.Property>
    <C.Property @name="[F].SuperSelectSingle" @type="yielded component">
    `Form::SuperSelect::Single::Base` component, yielded as a contextual component. For details about its API, check the [`Form::SuperSelect::Single::Base`](/components/form/super-select?tab=code#superselectsinglebase) component.
  </C.Property>
    <C.Property @name="[F].SuperSelectMultiple" @type="yielded component">
    `Form::SuperSelect::Multiple::Base` component, yielded as a contextual component. For details about its API, check the [`Form::SuperSelect::Multiple::Base`](/components/form/super-select?tab=code#superselectmultiplebase) component.
  </C.Property>
    <C.Property @name="[F].TextInput" @type="yielded component">
    `Form::TextInput::Base` component, yielded as a contextual component. For details about its API, check the [`Form::TextInput::Base`](/components/form/text-input?tab=code#formtextinputbase-1) component.
  </C.Property>
    <C.Property @name="[F].Textarea" @type="yielded component">
    `Form::Textarea::Base` component, yielded as a contextual component. For details about its API, check the [`Form::Textarea::Base`](/components/form/textarea?tab=code#formtextareabase-1) component.
  </C.Property>
      <C.Property @name="[F].Error" @type="yielded component">
    The `Form::Error` component, yielded as a contextual component. For details about its API, check the [`Form::Error`](/components/form/primitives) component.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="...attributes">
    This component supports use of [`...attributes`](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/in-depth-topics/patterns-for-components/#toc_attribute-ordering).
  </C.Property>
</Doc::ComponentApi>
