---
category: components
component: card
section: component-api
---

# Card component - Component API

Here is the API for the component:

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-card"><dt>level <code>enum</code></dt><dd><p>This controls the level of elevation ("shadow" visual effect). Acceptable values:</p><ol>{{#each @model.CONTAINER_LEVELS as |level|}}<li class="{{if" (eq="" level="" @model.container_default_level)="" "default"}}="">{{level}}</li>{{/each}}</ol><p><em>Notice: <code class="dummy-code">low</code> and <code class="dummy-code">higher</code> are not correct values for this component (by design).</em></p></dd><dt>levelHover <code>enum</code></dt><dd><p>This controls the level of elevation on <code class="dummy-code">:hover</code> state. Acceptable values:</p><ol>{{#each @model.CONTAINER_HOVER_LEVELS as |level|}}<li>{{level}}</li>{{/each}}</ol></dd><dt>levelActive <code>enum</code></dt><dd><p>This controls the level of elevation on <code class="dummy-code">:active</code> state. Acceptable values:</p><ol>{{#each @model.CONTAINER_ACTIVE_LEVELS as |level|}}<li>{{level}}</li>{{/each}}</ol></dd><dt>background <code>enum</code></dt><dd><p>This controls the background color. Acceptable values:</p><ol><li class="default">neutral-primary</li><li>neutral-secondary</li></ol><p><em>Notice: later we may decide/need to add more colors, but for now we have found only these two use cases.</em></p></dd><dt>hasBorder <code>boolean</code></dt><dd><p>This controls if the card has a visual "edge", an external border (technically is an extra 1px shadow on top of the other drop shadows).</p><p><em>Notice: the color of the border is pre-defined. If you need a custom border you have to wrap your content in an element and assign the border to it (in that case, remember to inherit the border radius).</em></p></dd><dt>overflow <code>enum</code></dt><dd><p>This controls if the main wrapper (who has a border-radius applied) has overflow = visible or hidden. We expect that this is needed in case part of the content (eg. a tooltip) needs to go beyond the bounding box of the card itself. Acceptable values:</p><ol><li class="default">hidden</li><li>visible</li></ol></dd><dt>...attributes</dt><dd><p><code class="dummy-code">...attributes</code> spreading is supported on this component.</p></dd></dl>