# ember-flight-icons

An Ember addon for the icons from `flight`. Currently in development.

Goals:

* Accessible
* Easy to use
* Easy to maintain
* Sensible defaults

## Compatibility

* Ember.js v3.20 or above
* Ember CLI v3.20 or above
* Node.js v10 or above

## Installation

This package has not yet been published. Once it has, you can install it like any other Ember addon:

```bash
ember install @hashicorp/ember-flight-icons
```

## Usage

### Required usage

The `name` must be specified. A default icon size of 24 will be provided.

```hbs
<FlightIcon @name="activity" />
```

### Optional usage

Icons are set to a `viewBox` square size of 24 by default. 

```hbs
<FlightIcon @name="activity" />
```

Currently, we support a `viewBox` square size of 24 or 16. If you need your icon to be smaller than 24, pass in `size`. 

```hbs
<FlightIcon @name="activity" @size="16" />
```

Icons are set to `display: inline-block` by default. To remove this, set `isInlineBlock` to `false`:

```hbs
<FlightIcon @name="archive" @isInlineBlock={{false}} />
```

Icons are set to `fill="currentColor"` by default. To change this, set the desired color:

```hbs
<FlightIcon @name="activity" @color="red" />
```

### Note

The `id` is automatically generated by the component, and will be unique.

## Accessibility

Accessibility support for SVGs is inconsistent across browsers and assistive technology. Currently, best practice is to set the `aria-hidden` attribute to `false` on the SVG itself.
This means that the `<FlightIcon>` component will need to be used _in context_.
The icons themselves are for presentation purposes only and should never be used on their own.

Example:

```hbs
<button aria-label="Check Activity">
  <FlightIcon @name="activity" />
</button>
```

```hbs
<h2><FlightIcon @name="activity" />Activity Report</h2>
```

## Contributing

See the [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) guide for details.

## License

This project is licensed under the [Mozilla Public License 2.0](LICENSE.md).
