# Form::Radio Component - Component API

The `Form::Radio` component has three different variants, with their own APIs:

*   `Form::Radio::Base` - the "basic" component: just the `<input>` control
*   `Form::Radio::Field` - the "field" parent component: the `<input>` control, with label, helper text and error messaging (in a wrapping container)
*   `Form::Radio::Group` - the "group" parent component: a `<legend>` (optional), a list of fields, and error messaging

Given the nature of the "radio" control (always used in a list of options) the most likely to be used is the "group" variant, while the "base" and "field" variants may be used to create custom layouts/designs.

#### Form::Radio::Base

Here is the API for the "base" component:

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-form-radio-base"><dt>...attributes</dt><dd><p><code class="dummy-code">...attributes</code> spreading is supported on this component.</p><p><em>Notice: the attributes will be applied to the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;input type="radio"&gt;</code> element. This means you can use all the standard HTML attributes of the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;input type="radio"&gt;</code> element and all the usual Ember techniques for event handling, validation, etc.</em></p><p><em>Some examples of HTML attributes that you will likely use: <code class="dummy-code">id</code>, <code class="dummy-code">name</code>, <code class="dummy-code">value</code>, <code class="dummy-code">checked</code>, <code class="dummy-code">disabled</code> (<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#attributes" rel="noopener noreferrer">see whole list here</a>) and some examples of Ember modifiers: <code class="dummy-code">{{on "click" [do something]}}</code>, <code class="dummy-code">{{on "change" [do something]}}</code>.</em></p></dd></dl>

#### Form::Radio::Field

Here is the API for the "field" component:

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-form-radio-field"><dt>id <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>The input control's ID attribute</p><p><em>Notice: by default the ID is automatically generated by the component; use this argument if you need to pass a custom ID for specific reasons you may have.</em></p></dd><dt>extraAriaDescribedBy <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>An extra ID attribute to be added to the <code class="dummy-code">aria-describedby</code> HTML attribute.</p><p><em>Notice: by default the <code class="dummy-code">aria-describedby</code> attribute is automatically generated by the component, using the IDs of the helper text and errors (if they're present); use this argument if you need to pass an extra ID for specific reasons you may have.</em></p></dd><dt>...attributes</dt><dd><p><code class="dummy-code">...attributes</code> spreading is supported on this component.</p><p><em>Notice: the attributes will be applied to the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;input type="radio"&gt;</code> element. This means you can use all the standard HTML attributes of the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;input type="radio"&gt;</code> element and all the usual Ember techniques for event handling, validation, etc.</em></p><p><em>Some examples of HTML attributes that you will likely use: <code class="dummy-code">id</code>, <code class="dummy-code">name</code>, <code class="dummy-code">value</code>, <code class="dummy-code">checked</code>, <code class="dummy-code">disabled</code> (<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#attributes" rel="noopener noreferrer">see whole list here</a>) and some examples of Ember modifiers: <code class="dummy-code">{{on "click" [do something]}}</code>, <code class="dummy-code">{{on "change" [do something]}}</code>.</em></p></dd></dl>

##### Contextual components

Label, helper text and error content are passed to the field as yielded components, using the `Label`, `HelperText`, `Error` keys.

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-form-radio-field-contextual-components"><dt>&lt;[F].Label&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;label&gt;</code> element.</p><p>The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style).</p><p>For details about its API check the <a href="/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/"><code class="dummy-code">Form::Label</code></a> component.</p><p><em>Notice: the <code class="dummy-code">for</code> attribute of the label is automatically generated, using the <code class="dummy-code">controlId</code> value of the control.</em></p></dd><dt>&lt;[F].HelperText&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the "helper text" block.</p><p>The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style).</p><p>For details about its API check the <a href="/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/"><code class="dummy-code">Form::HelperText</code></a> component.</p><p><em>Notice: the <code class="dummy-code">id</code> attribute of the element is automatically generated, using the <code class="dummy-code">controlId</code> value of the control.</em></p></dd><dt>&lt;[F].Error&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the "error" block.</p><p>The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style).</p><dl class="dummy-component-props"><dt>[E].Message <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>If the error is made of multiple messages, you can iterate over a collection of error messages yielding individual items using <code class="dummy-code">Error.Message</code>.</p></dd></dl><p>For details about its API check the <a href="/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/"><code class="dummy-code">Form::Error</code></a> component.</p><p><em>Notice: the <code class="dummy-code">id</code> attribute of the <code class="dummy-code">Error</code> element is automatically generated.</em></p></dd></dl>

#### Form::Radio::Group

Here is the API for the "group" component:

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-form-radio-group"><dt>layout <code>enum</code></dt><dd><p>Sets the layout of group.</p><p>Acceptable values:</p><ol><li class="default">vertical</li><li>horizontal</li></ol></dd><dt>name <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>Sets the <code class="dummy-code">name</code> attribute for each form control within the group.</p></dd><dt>isRequired <code>boolean</code></dt><dd><p>Appends a <code class="dummy-code">Required</code> indicator next to the legend text and sets the <code class="dummy-code">required</code> attribute on the controls when user input is required.</p><p>Default: <span class="default">false</span></p></dd><dt>isOptional <code>boolean</code></dt><dd><p>Appends an <code class="dummy-code">Optional</code> indicator next to the legend text when user input is optional.</p><p>Default: <span class="default">false</span></p></dd></dl>

##### Contextual components

Legend, group of fields and error content are passed to the group as yielded components, using the `Legend`, `Radio::Field`, `Error` keys.

_Notice: the group of elements is automatically wrapped in a `<fieldset>` element._

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-form-radio-group-contextual-components"><dt>&lt;[G].Legend&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is an (optional) container that yields its content inside the <code class="dummy-code">&lt;legend&gt;</code> element.</p><p>The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style).</p><p>For details about its API check the <a href="/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/"><code class="dummy-code">Form::Legend</code></a> component.</p></dd><dt>&lt;[G].HelperText&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the "helper text" block (at group level).</p><p>The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style).</p><p>For details about its API check the <a href="/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/"><code class="dummy-code">Form::HelperText</code></a> component.</p><p><em>Notice: the <code class="dummy-code">id</code> attribute of the element is automatically generated.</em></p></dd><dt>&lt;[G].Radio::Field&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is used to yield one or more fields inside the group.</p><p>For details about its API check the <code class="dummy-code">Radio::Field</code> component above.</p></dd><dt>&lt;[G].Error&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the "error" block (at group level).</p><p>The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style).</p><dl class="dummy-component-props"><dt>[E].Message <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>If the error is made of multiple messages, you can iterate over a collection of error messages yielding individual items using <code class="dummy-code">Error.Message</code>.</p></dd></dl><p>For details about its API check the <a href="/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/"><code class="dummy-code">Form::Error</code></a> component.</p><p><em>Notice: the <code class="dummy-code">id</code> attribute of the <code class="dummy-code">Error</code> element is automatically generated.</em></p></dd></dl>