# Alert component - Component API

Here is the API for the component:

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-alert"><dt>type <code>enum</code> <strong class="required">required</strong></dt><dd><p>Sets the type of alert.</p><p>Acceptable values:</p><ol><li>page</li><li>inline</li><li>compact</li></ol></dd><dt>color <code>enum</code></dt><dd><p>Sets the color scheme for <code class="dummy-code">background</code>, <code class="dummy-code">border</code>, <code class="dummy-code">title</code>, and <code class="dummy-code">description</code>, which <strong>cannot</strong> be overridden. <code class="dummy-code">color</code> results in a default <code class="dummy-code">icon</code>, which <strong>can</strong> be overridden.</p><p>Acceptable values:</p><ol><li class="default">neutral</li><li>highlight</li><li>success</li><li>warning</li><li>critical</li></ol></dd><dt>icon <code>string | false</code></dt><dd><p>Override the default <code class="dummy-code">icon</code> name, which is determined by the <code class="dummy-code">color</code> argument.</p><p>Acceptable values: any <a href="https://flight-hashicorp.vercel.app/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Flight</a> icon name or pass <code class="dummy-code">false</code> for no icon.</p></dd><dt>onDismiss <code>function</code></dt><dd><p>The alert can be dismissed by the user. When a function is passed, the "dismiss" button is displayed.</p></dd><dt>...attributes</dt><dd><p><code class="dummy-code">...attributes</code> spreading is supported on this component.</p></dd></dl>

#### Contextual components

Title, description, actions and generic content are passed into the alert as yielded components, using the `Title`, `Description`, `Button`, `Link::Standalone`, `Generic` keys.

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="contextual-components-alert"><dt>&lt;[A].Title&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the <code class="dummy-code">"title"</code> block (the content inherits its style). It accepts <code class="dummy-code">...attributes</code> spreading.</p></dd><dt>&lt;[A].Description&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a container that yields its content inside the <code class="dummy-code">"description"</code> block (the content inherits its style). It accepts <code class="dummy-code">...attributes</code> spreading.</p><p>It can be used to pass content more complex than a simple string (eg. logic/conditionals, HTML elements, other Ember components, etc.) inside the "description" block.</p><p><em>Notice: for a few simple HTML elements (like <code class="dummy-code">strong</code>, <code class="dummy-code">em</code>, <code class="dummy-code">a</code>, <code class="dummy-code">code/pre</code>) we apply styling. If you use other elements you will need to take care of styling them accordingly.</em></p></dd><dt>&lt;[A].Button&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a yielded <code class="dummy-code">HDS::Button</code> component, so it exposes exactly <a href="/components/button/01_overview/">the same API of the <code class="dummy-code">Button</code> component</a>, apart from the <code class="dummy-code">@size</code> argument that is pre-defined to be <code class="dummy-code">small</code>, and the <code class="dummy-code">@color</code> argument that accepts only <code class="dummy-code">secondary</code> or <code class="dummy-code">tertiary</code>.</p></dd><dt>&lt;[A].Link::Standalone&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a yielded <code class="dummy-code">HDS::Link::Standalone</code> component, so it exposes exactly <a href="/components/link/standalone/01_overview/">the same API of the <code class="dummy-code">Link::Standalone</code> component</a>, apart from the <code class="dummy-code">@size</code> argument that is pre-defined to be <code class="dummy-code">small</code>.</p></dd><dt>&lt;[A].Generic&gt; <code>yielded component</code></dt><dd><p>It is a very simple component that yields its content.</p><p><em>Notice: generic the content will appear at the bottom, after title, description and actions, and the developer will need to take care of spacing, layout and styling of the custom content in this case.</em></p><p>🚨 <em><strong>Important</strong>: this method should be used only in special cases and as an escape hatch. If you find yourself in need to use it, we suggest to speak with the design system team to check that the solution is conformant and satifies the accessibility criteria.</em></p></dd></dl>

For more details about how to invoke these contextual components see the sections ["How to use > Description"](#how-to-use-description), ["How to use > Actions"](#how-to-use-actions) and ["How to use > Generic content"](#how-to-use-generic) below.