---
title: Form::Textarea
category: components
group: form
component: textarea
section: component-api
---

The `Form::Textarea` component is based on the Ember [`Textarea` built-in component](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/components/built-in-components/).

This component has two different variants, with their own APIs:

*   `Form::Textarea::Base` - the "basic" component: the `<Textarea>` Ember component
*   `Form::Textarea::Field` - the "field" parent component: the `<Textarea>` Ember component, with label, helper text and error messaging (in a wrapping container)

#### Form::Textarea::Base

The "base" component under the hood uses the Ember `Textarea` built-in component. Please refer to the [`Textarea` API documentation](https://api.emberjs.com/ember/release/classes/Ember.Templates.components/methods/Textarea?anchor=Textarea) for more details.

In addition this component provides this extra API:

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|><C.Property @name="isInvalid" @type="boolean" @value="–">It applies an "invalid" appearance to the control (_notice: this does \_not\_ modify its logical validity_).</C.Property><C.Property @name="width" @type="string" @value="any valid CSS width (px, rem, etc)">_Notice: by default the_</C.Property><C.Property @name="height" @type="string" @value="any valid CSS height (px, rem, etc)">_Notice: by default the_</C.Property><C.Property @name="...attributes" @type="–" @value="–">`...attributes` spreading is supported on this component. _Notice: the attributes will be applied to the_ _Some examples of HTML attributes that you will likely use:_</C.Property></Doc::ComponentApi>

#### Form::Textarea::Field

Here is the API for the "field" component:

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|><C.Property @name="isInvalid" @type="boolean" @value="–">It applies an "invalid" appearance to the control (_notice: this does \_not\_ modify its logical validity_).</C.Property><C.Property @name="id" @type="string" @value="–">The textarea control's ID attribute _Notice: by default the ID is automatically generated by the component; use this argument if you need to pass a custom ID for specific reasons you may have._</C.Property><C.Property @name="isRequired" @type="boolean" @value="–">Appends an indicator to the label text and sets the `required` attribute on the control when user input is required.</C.Property><C.Property @name="isOptional" @type="boolean" @value="–">Appends an `Optional` indicator next to the label text when user input is optional.</C.Property><C.Property @name="extraAriaDescribedBy" @type="string" @value="–">An extra ID attribute to be added to the `aria-describedby` HTML attribute. _Notice: by default the_</C.Property><C.Property @name="...attributes" @type="–" @value="–">`...attributes` spreading is supported on this component. _Notice: the attributes will be applied to the_ _Some examples of HTML attributes that you will likely use:_</C.Property></Doc::ComponentApi>

##### Contextual components

Label, helper text and error content are passed to the field as yielded components, using the `Label`, `HelperText`, `Error` keys.

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|><C.Property @name="<[F].Label>" @type="yielded component" @value="–">It is a container that yields its content inside the `<label>` element. The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style). For details about its API check the [undefined](/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/) component. _Notice: the_</C.Property><C.Property @name="<[F].HelperText>" @type="yielded component" @value="–">It is a container that yields its content inside the "helper text" block. The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style). For details about its API check the [undefined](/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/) component. _Notice: the_</C.Property><C.Property @name="<[F].Error>" @type="yielded component" @value="–">It is a container that yields its content inside the "error" block. The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style). For details about its API check the [undefined](/components/form/base-elements/01_overview/) component. _Notice: the_</C.Property><C.Property @name="<[E].Message>" @type="yielded component" @value="–">If the error is made of multiple messages, you can iterate over a collection of error messages yielding individual items using `Error.Message`.</C.Property></Doc::ComponentApi>