The `Form::Textarea` component is based on the Ember [`Textarea` built-in component](https://guides.emberjs.com/release/components/built-in-components/).

This component has two different variants, with their own APIs:

*   `Form::Textarea::Base` - the "basic" component: the `<Textarea>` Ember component
*   `Form::Textarea::Field` - the "field" parent component: the `<Textarea>` Ember component, with label, helper text and error messaging (in a wrapping container)

#### Form::Textarea::Base

The "base" component under the hood uses the Ember `Textarea` built-in component. Please refer to the [`Textarea` API documentation](https://api.emberjs.com/ember/release/classes/Ember.Templates.components/methods/Textarea?anchor=Textarea) for more details.

In addition this component provides this extra API:

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|>
  <C.Property @name="isInvalid" @type="boolean">
    It applies an "invalid" appearance to the control (_notice: this does \_not\_ modify its logical validity_).
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="width" @type="string" @value="any valid CSS width (px, rem, etc)">
    _Notice: by default the `<textarea>` has a `width` of `100%` applied to it, so it fills the parent container. If a `@width` parameter is provided then the control will have a fixed width._
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="height" @type="string" @value="any valid CSS height (px, rem, etc)">
    _Notice: by default the `<textarea>` has a `height` determined by the browser to accommodate 4 lines of text. If a `@height` parameter is provided then the control will have a fixed height._
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="...attributes">
    `...attributes` spreading is supported on this component. _Notice: the attributes will be applied to the `<textarea>` element. This means you can use all the standard HTML attributes of the `<textarea>` element and all the usual Ember techniques for event handling, validation, etc._ _Some examples of HTML attributes that you will likely use: `id`, `name`, `value`, `placeholder`, `disabled`, `required`, `readonly` ([see whole list here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#attributes)) and some examples of Ember modifiers: `\{{on "input" [do something]}}`, `\{{on "change" [do something]}}`, `\{{on "blur" [do something]}}`._
  </C.Property>
</Doc::ComponentApi>

#### Form::Textarea::Field

Here is the API for the "field" component:

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|>
  <C.Property @name="isInvalid" @type="boolean">
    It applies an "invalid" appearance to the control (_notice: this does \_not\_ modify its logical validity_).
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="id" @type="string">
    The textarea control's ID attribute _Notice: by default the ID is automatically generated by the component; use this argument if you need to pass a custom ID for specific reasons you may have._
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="isRequired" @type="boolean">
    Appends an indicator to the label text and sets the `required` attribute on the control when user input is required.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="isOptional" @type="boolean">
    Appends an `Optional` indicator next to the label text when user input is optional.
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="extraAriaDescribedBy" @type="string">
    An extra ID attribute to be added to the `aria-describedby` HTML attribute. _Notice: by default the `aria-describedby` attribute is automatically generated by the component, using the IDs of the helper text and errors (if they're present); use this argument if you need to pass an extra ID for specific reasons you may have._
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="...attributes">
    `...attributes` spreading is supported on this component. _Notice: the attributes will be applied to the `<textarea>` element. This means you can use all the standard HTML attributes of the `<textarea>` element and all the usual Ember techniques for event handling, validation, etc._ _Some examples of HTML attributes that you will likely use: `id`, `name`, `value`, `placeholder`, `disabled`, `required`, `readonly` ([see whole list here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#attributes)) and some examples of Ember modifiers: `\{{on "input" [do something]}}`, `\{{on "change" [do something]}}`, `\{{on "blur" [do something]}}`._
  </C.Property>
</Doc::ComponentApi>

##### Contextual components

Label, helper text and error content are passed to the field as yielded components, using the `Label`, `HelperText`, `Error` keys.

<Doc::ComponentApi as |C|>
  <C.Property @name="<[F].Label>" @type="yielded component">
    It is a container that yields its content inside the `<label>` element. The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style). For details about its API check the [`Form::Label`](/components/form/base-elements/) component. _Notice: the `for` attribute of the label is automatically generated, using the `controlId` value of the control._
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="<[F].HelperText>" @type="yielded component">
    It is a container that yields its content inside the "helper text" block. The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style). For details about its API check the [`Form::HelperText`](/components/form/base-elements/) component. _Notice: the `id` attribute of the element is automatically generated, using the `controlId` value of the control._
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="<[F].Error>" @type="yielded component">
    It is a container that yields its content inside the "error" block. The content can be a simple string, or a more complex/structured one (in which case it inherits the text style). For details about its API check the [`Form::Error`](/components/form/base-elements/) component. _Notice: the `id` attribute of the `Error` element is automatically generated._
  </C.Property>
  <C.Property @name="<[E].Message>" @type="yielded component">
    If the error is made of multiple messages, you can iterate over a collection of error messages yielding individual items using `Error.Message`.
  </C.Property>
</Doc::ComponentApi>