---
category: components
component: button
section: component-api
---

# Button component - Component API

Here is the API for the component:

<dl class="dummy-component-props" aria-labelledby="component-api-button"><dt>size <code>enum</code></dt><dd><p>Acceptable values:</p><ol><li>small</li><li class="default">medium</li><li>large</li></ol></dd><dt>color <code>enum</code></dt><dd><p>Acceptable values:</p><ol><li class="default">primary</li><li>secondary</li><li>tertiary</li><li>critical</li></ol></dd><dt>text <code>string</code> <strong class="required">required</strong></dt><dd><p>The text of the button or value of <em>aria-label</em> if <em>isIconOnly</em> is set to <em>true</em>.</p><p><em>If no text value is defined an error will be thrown.</em></p></dd><dt>icon <code>string</code></dt><dd><p>Use this parameter to show an icon. Acceptable value: any Flight icon name.</p><p><strong>🚨 IMPORTANT a11y note:</strong> <code class="dummy-code">tertiary</code> buttons have transparent backgrounds, and interactive elements must communicate interactivity with more than just color. Therefore, a leading or trailing icon is required when using the <code class="dummy-code">tertiary</code> color. <a href="https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/quickref/?showtechniques=141#use-of-color" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">WCAG 2.1 Criterion 1.4.1: Use of Color (Level A)</a></p></dd><dt>iconPosition <code>enum</code></dt><dd><p>Positions the icon before or after the text. Acceptable values:</p><ol><li class="default">leading</li><li>trailing</li></ol></dd><dt>isIconOnly <code>boolean</code></dt><dd><p>Default: <span class="default">false</span></p><p>This indicates if the button will only contain an icon.</p><p><em>Notice: an internal check is in place to ensure that accessible text is still applied to the component.</em></p></dd><dt>isFullWidth <code>boolean</code></dt><dd><p>Default: <span class="default">false</span></p><p>This indicates that a button should take up the full width of the parent container.</p></dd><dt>href</dt><dd><p>This is the URL parameter that is passed down to the <code>&lt;a&gt;</code> element.</p></dd><dt>isHrefExternal <code>boolean</code></dt><dd><p>Default: <span class="default">true</span></p><p>This controls if the <code>&lt;a&gt;</code> link is external and so for security reasons we need to add the <code>target="_blank"</code> and <code>rel="noopener noreferrer"</code> attributes to it.</p></dd><dt>route/models/model/query/current-when/replace</dt><dd><p>These are the parameters that are passed down as arguments to the <code>&lt;LinkTo/LinkToExternal&gt;</code> component.</p></dd><dt>isRouteExternal <code>boolean</code></dt><dd><p>Default: <span class="default">false</span></p><p>This controls if the "LinkTo" is external to the Ember engine (<a href="https://ember-engines.com/docs/link-to-external" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">more details here</a>) in which case it will use a <code>&lt;LinkToExternal&gt;</code> instead of a simple <code>&lt;LinkTo&gt;</code> for the @route.</p></dd><dt>...attributes</dt><dd><p><code class="dummy-code">...attributes</code> spreading is supported on this component.</p></dd></dl>